# file-generator

## file generator
***filegen.sh*** is a **MALWARE** tool for use in monitoring tasks (i.e., overseeing the machine's performance with the help of Node Exporter, Prometheus and Grafana dashboards before and after the script's launch) made in educational purposes. Its functionality is clogging the system with files and reducing its available hard disk memory. **Launch at your own risk.**

***filegen.sh*** has two working modes:

1. local \
        Creates subdirestories inside a user-specified directory and fills them with kb-sized files. The user can also set name masks for subdirectories and files, amount of subdirectories and files to be generated, the size of the files in kb.
        
2. global \
        Creates a random amount of directories at completely random places in the filesystem and fills them with a random amount of Mb-sized files. The user can set name masks for subdirectories and files, and also the size of the files in Mb.

##### IIMPORTANT NOTE:
- the script stops working when the system reaches 1GB of free space left (in the / partition).
- deleting the .log files generated by the script is **unadvised**, at least before successfully launching ***cleaner.sh***.

To start the execution of the script, call ```./filegen.sh``` from the terminal (running the script without parameters will only output its usage information to the console).


## file cleaner
***cleaner.sh*** is a file cleaning tool that will remove all the redundant files previously created by ***filegen.sh***.

***cleaner.sh*** supports clearing by:
1. log file (requires the absolute path to the file to be inserted as the 2nd parameter)
2. creation/modification date and time (in the exact format of *YYYY-MM-DD_HH:MM--YYYY-MM-DD_HH:MM*)
3. name mask (i.e. characters, underlining and date, in the exact format of *abc_YYMMDD*)

##### IIMPORTANT NOTE:
- deletion of the files is irreversible.
- choosing the 2nd option is **unadvised**, as this mode might also purge the important files of the system or other applications, if they happened to be modified at the same time period.

To start the execution of the script, call ```./cleaner.sh``` from the terminal (running the script without parameters will only output its usage information to the console).
